---
title: "Prefix-ids: add prefix to all identifiers in Pandoc document"
author: "Julien Dutant"
---

Prefix-ids
==========

Add prefix to all identifiers in Pandoc document. Consists of two filters:

- `crossref-prefix-ids`: prefix pandoc-crossref identifiers and the corresponding citation links
- `prefix-ids`: prefix standard identifiers and internal links to them

The former should be applied *before* `pandoc-crossref` is applied. The second is to be applied after other identifier/link generating filters are applied, notably after citeproc. 

v0.1. Copyright: © 2021 Julien Dutant <julien.dutant@kcl.ac.uk>
License:  MIT - see LICENSE file for details.

Description
------------

Internal links within a Pandoc document, including those 
generated by citations with Citeproc, rely on identifiers. 
To avoid clashes when several documents are put together,
this filter:

1. adds a custom (or random) prefix to
all elements with an identifier within a document's body
2. fixes any internal links using those identifiers

It is best used after filters that add or modify links. 

*Note*. Pandoc's [`id_prefix` option](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#option--id-prefix)
does something similar but only for HTML and DocBook output. 
This filter applies the prefix within the Pandoc AST
document, making it suitable for inclusion within wider
pandoc documents, directly or via json output.

On the other hand, Pandoc's [`id_prefix` option](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#option--id-prefix) covers footnote links in HTML
outputs, and this function can't control them. So this function
is best used for non-HTML only.

The filter can be used together with [Pandoc-crossref](https://lierdakil.github.io/pandoc-crossref/).

Usage
-----

The filter is loaded with the Pandoc `-L` or `--lua-filter` option. 

```bash 
pandoc -L path/to/prefix-ids.lua source.md -o output.html
```

If the filter is in Pandoc's `$DATADIR` there is no need to give its
path. See [Pandoc's manual[
(https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#general-options) for details.

If using [Pandoc-crossref](https://lierdakil.github.io/pandoc-crossref/) and targeting LaTeX output, 
the `crossref-prefix` filter should be used
to, placed before crossref. A standard order would then be `crossref-prefix`,
`pandoc-crossref`, `citeproc` and then `predix-ids`:

```bash 
pandoc -L crossref-prefix.lua -F pandoc-crossref --citeproc -L prefix-ids.lua  source.md -o output.html
```

If using Pandoc-crossref but not 

These can be specified in a defaults yaml file, called with `pandoc -d defaults.yaml source.md -o output.html`:

```yaml
filters:
- crossref-prefix.lua
- pandoc-crossref
- citeproc
- prefix-ids.lua
```

Options
-------

A custom prefix can be specified in the document metadata:

```yaml
prefix-ids:
  prefix: 'my prefix'
```

If no prefix is specified, the filter will use a random 40-char string
of letters and numbers (`sha1` of the document's body).

By default the filter handles [Pandoc-crossref]
(https://lierdakil.github.io/pandoc-crossref/) syntax: an identifier
`#fig:figure1` becomes `#fig:prefixfigure1`. To disable this behaviour
set the pandoc-crossref suboption to false:

```yaml
prefix-ids:
  pandoc-crossref: false
```

Aliases of these options are provided to allow you to set them from 
the command line: `prefixs-ids-prefix` and `prefix-ids-pandoc-crossref`. 
Use the [Pandoc option `-M` 
(`--metadata`)](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#option--metadata) to do so:

```
pandoc -L prefix-ids.lua sample.md -o out.html -M prefix-ids-pandoc-crossref=false
```

If both standard and alias are provided, the latter prevails.

Warning
-------

The filter doesn't handle identifiers and links situated in the 
document's metadata, e.g. in the `abstract` or `thanks` field.
